ne2diag quick docs:

Just run it and watch the screen!

commandline:	ne2diag [ioport] [irq]

examples:	ne2diag 320 12
		ne2diag 280 5
		ne2diag 320

The ioport and irq parameters are optional, and have default values: 340 and 9
at time of release. I don't know for sure, but this may also work with PCI
NE-2000's; this is untested though. You'll probably need to download my PCI
info program to find out the IOPORT of a PCI NE-2000 however.

At this time the actual card settings are not actually verified - your own risk
of a crash if you guess wrong. You probably guessed the ioaddress wrong if the
ethernet address comes up as FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF. (try 280,300,320,340 & 360 as
these are the most likely ones.) You probably guessed the irq wrong if you are
sure there's traffic on the cable, but nothing happens onscreen.

This program is designed to be run from a plain-dos environment with NO NETWORK
CARD DRIVERS LOADED. It will run under Win95 IF Win95 itself is not also trying
to use the network card. If you run in a Win95/network environment, I recommend
you use 'Restart in MS-DOS mode' before using this program. Operation under
WinNT is probably impossible.

Oh, the following keys do something:

ESC	Quit
B	Toggle display of hex-dump of most recently received packet
+ -	Adjust size of recent packets window; smaller window is faster; may
	help avoid buffer overflows on slower PC's.
S	Toggle sending of packets. A sent packet is 1500 bytes long and
	contains 00 to FF hex, repeated over and over. Useful for deliberately
	trying to overload a network and/or verifying basic communication
	between two or more machines.


Other notes:

An Rx buffer overflow means that the PC can't keep up with the sheer rate of
incoming packets - I find a 486-25 is probably a minimum spec for this task;
obviously the faster the PC the less likely you are to have problems. Don't
expect a 286 to keep up!

It is assumed you know what packets, MAC addresses and other network
terminologies are. If not, don't expect to make sense of this program! I use
standard naming conventions throughout, so anyone familiar with networks should
be quite at home.

Full sorcecode is included. Do what you like with it... it's freeware. I'd
appreciate hearing from anyone who makes use of this program.



Visit my home page for the latest version:
members.hyperlink.net.au/~chart

Email me:
chart@hyperlink.net.au
